Who we are
We're an employee-owned, B Corp Certified, digital agency, creating measurable change for the world's most important organisations.
Where we are
Our team of 100+ people spans five continents, helping clients located all over the world.
We have an office in Bristol and a co-working space near Oxford. Some of us come into the office daily, others pop in occasionally, and many work fully remotely. Different roles and different lives call for different ways of working.
Meet the team
Making a difference
From partnering with Government departments to help solve problems for citizens, to supporting charities to raise vital funds for their appeals. Every project we’re lucky enough to work on is making the world a better place in one way or another.
Read our 2023 impact report
Our propositions
Charity
In a world of rising costs, AI complexity, compassion fatigue, and legacy tech, charities must transform. We help organisations amplify their impact, reach more supporters, and future-proof their operations for lasting change.
Public
We take progressive approaches to complex challenges, helping the public sector embrace constraints and drive innovation.
Our design-led, systemic approach uncovers opportunities beyond the obvious, creating efficient, inclusive digital services that adapt, grow, and evolve responsibly.
Wagtail CMS services
As the creators of Wagtail, the world's leading open-source Python CMS, we empower editors and developers to do their best work. We provide expert guidance, specialised training, and flexible developer support to help organisations leverage Wagtail's full potential.
Careers
Find out more about life at Torchbox, our benefits and the latest roles available.
Find out more
Sustainability
We’re proud of our history of supporting the environmental movement, having been involved in creating the first carbon footprinting and monitoring tools and working extensively with organisations such as WWF and Greenpeace.
Today, our Climate Action Voice Group continues to drive our sustainability agenda and our path to NetZero. Our B Corp certification underlines our ongoing commitment to responsible and sustainable business practices.
Our sustainability goals
Being employee-owned means we all actively participate in decision-making, enjoy a sense of belonging as co-owners, and directly reap the rewards of our collective success.
Amina Iqbal
Director of Client Services
Diversity and inclusion
We aim to learn, educate and make positive changes to create a diverse and inclusive environment for all. For our employees, clients, and people in the tech industry as a whole.
Find out more
Values we believe in
As a 100% employee-owned organisation, our values are something we all stand behind. We embrace them, live them and use them to help foster a culture of genuine ownership.
Spread the joy
We create an inspiring, positive environment in which everyone can enjoy themselves and do rewarding work.
Find ways to connect with each other that creates optimism and joy
Support and care for one another
Recognise the value each individual co-owner brings
Lead the change
We take ownership every day, we stand up for what we believe in and we use business as a force for good.
Challenge yourself and others to do the right thing
Follow through on your commitments
Make responsible choices that benefit your co-owners, clients, society and the environment
Raise the bar
We challenge and support each other as co-owners to create the quality outcomes we’re proud of.
Think one step ahead
Ask challenging questions to improve the quality of our work
Celebrate the impact we make
Explore the unknown
We’re eager to push ourselves and embrace new opportunities, we share what we learn and welcome change.
Look up and out to find fresh, new thinking
Intentionally create space to experiment, fail and elevate our work together
Seek out feedback and act on it
Some of our thinking
Global Accessibility Awareness Day 2025: The state of web accessibility and how we can improve it
Chris Lawton
Senior Engineer
15 May 2025
/
3 mins read
Hard-won lessons in employee ownership: Our journey through challenging times
Lisa Ballam
Head of Marketing
3 Dec 2024
/
3 mins read
Torchbox is a B Corp
Olly Willans
Chief Innovation Officer
26 Apr 2023
/
3 mins read