Measure, analyse & optimise
Make your data work harder for your mission
Charities face pressure to prove impact, optimise digital experiences and make data-driven decisions. Yet many struggle with fragmented data, complex analytics tools and measuring what matters.
With experience working with charities like Oxfam GB, Samaritans, Mind and DEC, we can build the frameworks, skills and tools to turn your data into actionable insights that drive real change.
We can help...
Make data-driven decisions
Transform insights into action.
Build measurement frameworks aligned to your goals, then identify long-term opportunities that drive organisational growth and impact.
Connect your systems
End messy data headaches.
Integrate your CRM, fundraising, and marketing systems to give you a trusted, unified view of every supporter's relationship with your cause.
Put data in the right hands
Turn insights into action.
Implement GA4 and GTM to capture every interaction that matters—from first touch to final conversion across your domains and campaigns.
Ensure data compliance
Don't risk your reputation.
We'll implement robust governance frameworks to keep you compliant with GDPR and PECR requirements - protecting your organisation from costly enforcement action.
Improve conversions (CRO)
Don't leave money on the table.
We'll help you identify friction points and run CRO programmes across donations, sign-ups and campaigns to improve conversion rates and increase revenue.
Turn data into impact
Let's chat about making your data actually useful. Book a quick call and we'll show you how.
Olly White
Head of Measurement & Impact
Get in touch
Impact delivered
Boosting visibility of National Art Pass
Art Fund
4 mins read
See more work posts in this category
Digital marketing
SEO
Data
Charity & non-profit
CRO drives 17% increase in donations for Mind
Mind
2 mins read
See more work posts in this category
Digital marketing
Data
Charity & non-profit
Girlguiding leap into Performance Max
Girlguiding
2 mins read
See more work posts in this category
Digital marketing
PPC
Charity & non-profit
Our thinking
What we know from Google I/O - Major announcements for 2025
Emma Bennett Gigg
Head of Digital Marketing
21 May 2025
/
6 mins read
Developing a data-driven measurement framework for MND Association
Peter Hoang
Senior Web Analyst
11 Oct 2024
/
3 mins read
Changes to Meta Advertising will impact charity campaigns in 2025
Jemma Notley
Digital Marketing Consultant
6 Mar 2025
/
6 mins read
Personally, I'm over the moon with what we've achieved here; I think we took a calculated risk, but in doing so we've proven irrefutably that we can make an impact, and this is the buy-in I need to move the conversation forward towards defining a fully fledged experimentation program at Mind. So thanks again and I look forward to building on this success!
Adam White
Digital Insights Manager
Let's chat data strategy
We can explore how to turn your charity's data into actionable insights.
Olly White
Head of Measurement & Impact
Get in touch
Looking for a specific service?
Data and measurement
Digital marketing training
Pay-per-click (PPC)
Search Engine Optimisation (SEO)
Social media management
Google Ad Grants management
Email marketing
Digital marketing creative for nonprofits
Digital marketing for charities