AI transformation
Amplify your mission through responsible AI innovation
AI affords a big opportunity for the charity sector, yet many struggle to understand its potential, how to implement proper governance or build the internal capabilities needed to use it ethically.
We partner with leading charities like RNIB, GOSH and Mind to ethically leverage AI's transformative power. We can help your charity do the same.
We can help...
Build your AI strategy
Navigate the future with confidence.
Like our work with CALP Network, we'll help you develop an AI roadmap that aligns with your mission, while addressing ethical implications head-on.
Create ethical solutions
Put AI to work responsibly.
We develop AI-powered solutions that transform service delivery - like ChatRNIB that's making support more accessible while maintaining trust.
Upskill your teams
Build organisation-wide confidence.
Just as we did with GOSH's communications team, we provide training that gives your people the knowledge to leverage AI safely and effectively.
Establish AI governance
Protect your reputation and values.
We'll help you implement robust frameworks for responsible AI adoption, ensuring ethical considerations and risk management are built into every initiative.
Streamline operations income
Reduce administrative burden.
We'll help you identify where automation can streamline processes, freeing up time to spend providing critical frontline services.
Chat to our team
Let's discuss how to develop your AI strategy, implement ethical solutions, or build the capabilities your organisation needs to thrive in an AI-enabled future.
Will Heinemann
New Business Director
Get in touch
The insights we gained provided us with a solid foundation to engage in more meaningful discussions about harnessing the power of AI and its potential contribution to Oxfam’s goals.
Theo Ratcliff
Head of Website
Impact delivered
Transforming service delivery at RNIB with AI chat technology
RNIB
3 mins read
See more work posts in this category
Innovation
AI
Digital products
Charity & non-profit
Understanding AI's potential at Breast Cancer Now
Breast Cancer Now
3 mins read
See more work posts in this category
Innovation
AI
Charity & non-profit
We're so pleased to be working with Torchbox who have been so committed and operate as a genuine extension of our team. Their expertise has ensured maximised returns from our digital campaign during this special moment of generosity from the UK public.
Simon Beresford
Director of Fundraising and Marketing
Our thinking
AI for content design and distribution
Stephanie Scott-Howes
Senior Content Designer
22 May 2025
/
2 mins read
What we know from Google I/O - Major announcements for 2025
Emma Bennett Gigg
Head of Digital Marketing
21 May 2025
/
6 mins read
AI in the nonprofit sector: Insights from our charity leaders' breakfast
Lisa Ballam
Head of Marketing
30 Jan 2025
/
3 mins read
Working with Cancer Research UK to unearth AI opportunities
We collaborated with Cancer Research UK to get a better understanding of AI technology advancements to identify where the biggest opportunities and risks to leverage Generative AI are across the organisational ecosystem.
This involved segmenting their organisation based on the jobs that they do today, AI knowledge sharing and bringing cross functional experts and leaders together to creatively explore, evaluate and prioritise a number of opportunity spaces.
Kickstarting Oxfam’s AI journey in global fundraising
Oxfam’s global fundraising team knew AI would change how they work—but weren’t sure where to begin.
We designed an interactive session that provided a clear introduction to AI, created space for open discussion, and guided the team through a practical workshop to explore their next steps.
The session gave the team a shared understanding of what AI is, how it could fit into Oxfam’s ways of working, and where the biggest opportunities lie for future fundraising.
Navigating change and shaping the future of AI at DEC
The Disasters Emergency Committee (DEC) partnered with Torchbox to make sense of the rapidly evolving AI landscape and co-create a strategic roadmap for responsible adoption.
Together, we defined a set of AI principles grounded in DEC’s values, upskilled teams across the organisation, and created space for open dialogue—allowing people to ask questions, raise challenges, and explore opportunities.
Using a structured approach, we surfaced and prioritised a range of AI use cases—from small, practical enhancements to bold, transformative possibilities.
The result: a clear set of principles, a practical AI roadmap, and a tailored learning and change programme to support DEC’s journey with confidence and care.