Lisa Ballam
Head of Marketing
Meet Jo Undrell: Our New Independent Trustee
16 Jun 2025
/
3 mins read
We're delighted to welcome Jo Undrell as our new Independent Trustee.
With 25 years at John Lewis Partnership, including running their Partnership Council of 50+ elected employee representatives, she brings deep expertise in large-scale employee ownership.
Here, I chat with Jo about her career, EO journey and what attracted her to the role.
Jo in action at a JLP meeting
You've spent 25 years at John Lewis Partnership, how did that shape your understanding of employee ownership?
It's a long time, isn't it! "The Partnership"—as JLP employees affectionately call it—has kept me stretched and challenged since I joined straight out of university in 2000. JLP has seen me grow up, get married, become a mother, get divorced and develop a few laughter lines along the way.
I've worked across the entire business: department stores, Waitrose shops, Supply Chain, project management, recruitment, and even Partnership journalism. For the last 10 years, I've specialised in bringing our co-ownership model to life.
If I'm honest, I didn't join because it was co-owned, I joined after fun summer temp weeks where I met my (still) best mate! But our co-ownership structure is why I've stayed, that and I kept getting promoted and love the discount card!
It's something special knowing you're not working for faceless shareholders getting richer from your labour but for each other and yourself. You can't overestimate how much more personal that makes life at work feel.
What have you learnt from leading the Partnership Council?
Most recently, I helped run our Partnership Council, one of JLP's three governing authorities. This council has 50+ Partners, elected by colleagues to represent them. It's a privilege to support these Partners to hold senior leaders to account and speak truth to power, often finding myself agitating for the long-term interests of Partners.
Several Torchboxers have attended these meetings and seen the Partnership Council in all its glory, and through several testing moments too, at one point we had the press camped outside and bouncers on our doors! Right now we're hotly debating benefits for retired Partners and our next strategic development plan. Never a dull moment and I'm sure Torchbox will be the same.
What attracted you to our Independent Trustee role?
Complete no-brainer! I first discovered Torchbox when some of the team visited the Partnership Council, and my colleague Matt and I gave a Spark Talk to the team internally. So, when I saw the vacancy, I jumped at it.
I'd been ready for an Independent Trustee role but needed the right opportunity, a business whose purpose aligned with my values and one early in its co-ownership journey, where I could add the most value. Perfect match.
What's one practice from JLP that could benefit other employee-owned businesses?
Learning to really listen to your co-owners. The answers are almost always in the room, and the power of conversation can never be overestimated. Also, ownership is a privilege, challenging each other around the responsibilities that come with it is crucial.
What does a thriving ownership culture look like?
"Culture eats strategy for breakfast", I love that phrase! It's not about fancy plans but what happens day-to-day, how people treat each other and feel about their work.
A thriving ownership culture continually evolves and should never arrive at a fixed end state. For me, it's about trust and respect, with everyone having an equal right to shape their business' future. Genuine sharing of power and knowledge, where every member feels they have a valued voice that's listened to and acted upon. A place where there's healthy exploration of tensions, solutions are co-created, and everyone cares just that bit more because it's theirs. I wouldn't suggest JLP has nailed all that either, but it's great to be forever trying.
What potential do you see for Torchbox?
Endless potential! There's such infectious energy here. As an emerging co-owned setup, you're uninhibited by "how it's always been done." I see genuine passion for making things work, and a desire to experiment and try new things. It's invigorating.
How will you mentor our employee trustees?
Coaching is personal, so I'll be led by what the Trustees need. They're a team, but also individuals with different levels of experience and confidence that fluctuate over time. I see my role as enabling them to find their voices and creating conditions where the Trust Board can make a real difference to Torchbox's future. Mostly, it's about being that critical friend, always championing their work and offering advice from my own experience.
What are you most looking forward to?
Getting to know my fellow Trustees and the broader team, learning about your work in a brand new sector to me, and working out what you can try next. I'm also looking forward to more Thursday office lunches, I had my first last week and it lived up to the reviews!
More
Our learnings from the John Lewis Partnership Council Meeting
Helen Chapman
Senior Engineer
28 May 2025
/
3 mins read
Global Accessibility Awareness Day 2025: The state of web accessibility and how we can improve it
Chris Lawton
Senior Engineer
15 May 2025
/
3 mins read
Our evolution - built on sector expertise
Lisa Ballam
Head of Marketing
17 Mar 2025
/
2 mins read
See more posts