Privacy policy
Personal Information
Our website has e-mail links and a contact form. These features facilitate the capture of personal information such as your first name, last name, company, email address and job title. Through the use of these features you may also provide additional personal information that would aid us in providing a service. None of the features detailed above are automated and personal information is not captured unless expressly provided by the user.
Browsing data
We use Google Analytics to collect information about your device and location, the pages you view, and the actions you take on the website. This data does not directly identify anyone and is used to improve our website.
See our
Cookies
page for further details about how we use cookies.
Use of information
Torchbox use the personal information provided to us to respond directly to enquiries and liaise with clients. We may also use email addresses for internal marketing purposes. If you do not wish to receive Torchbox marketing simply drop us an email and we will remove you from our distribution list.
We use aggregated server access data to track visitor use of the website and to compile statistical reports on website activity. These activities are completed with the goal of continually improving our website functionality and customer service.
Information transfer
Torchbox do not transfer data to third parties and will only disclose your personal information in circumstances where we are legally obliged to do so.
Third-party links
There are links to third parties on our website. Please note that this privacy policy applies only to the Torchbox website and does not mean that we endorse the privacy policy of a linked site. When visiting linked sites you should read and become familiar with their privacy policies.
Contact details and access to information
If you have any questions about our privacy policy or the information we hold about you, please contact us (dpa AT torchbox.com). You can request a copy of some or all the information that we hold about you. This is your right as defined in the Data Protection Act 2018 / UK GDPR.
Copyright
No material, graphics, sounds, text, animation, design, interactive ideas, or conceptual ideas from this site may be copied, uploaded, posted, modified or distributed in any way except that you may download one copy of the materials on any single computer for your own personal, home use only, provided you keep intact all copyright and other proprietary notices. The use of any such material on any other website or computer environment is prohibited unless agreed otherwise by the company ("Torchbox Ltd").
All content on this site including words, logos, animations, graphics or other media are trademarks of Torchbox Ltd unless stated otherwise. Other trademarks which appear on this site are owned by the relevant proprietor. All rights relating to such trademarks are reserved.
Disclaimer
This site is controlled and operated by Torchbox Ltd from the United Kingdom and complies with English law. It is intended to be accessed by UK users and international users. All visits to this site shall be governed by English law.
Whilst Torchbox Ltd uses reasonable efforts to include accurate and up-to-date information in the site, Torchbox Ltd makes no warranties or representations as to its accuracy. Torchbox Ltd assumes no liability for any errors or omissions in the content of the site. All information is subject to subsequent variation, without notice.