Execution and delivery
Design, build and scale solutions and services
Using our experience and expertise in the public sector – and learnings from our work in other sectors – we build public services that can adapt, grow, and evolve.
Our future-focused work encompasses accessible, sustainable and maintainable technology so that the services we build together are value for money now and for the future.
Transform user experiences
Service design: innovation and delivery
Combining deep user research with innovative service design creates digital experiences that work for everyone
Deliver at scale
End-to-end scaled digital delivery
Take services from concept to full deployment, ensuring they handle growing demand while maintaining performance and accessibility.
Modernise with purpose
Evolve legacy technology
Smart transition from legacy systems to modern solutions that free teams to innovate, without risking service disruption.
Build for your needs
Bespoke or custom technology solutions
Custom digital solutions that precisely match your requirements - no paying for unnecessary features or complexity.
Connect seamlessly
Technology infrastructure and integrations
Robust technical architectures that integrate smoothly with existing systems, creating efficient, future-ready foundations.
Working with DIT's team has been incredibly valuable - their global requirements are pushing us to develop solutions that ensure content is accessible to everyone. This partnership demonstrates how government digital needs can drive innovations that benefit all users.
Thibaud Colas
Senior Engineer and Wagtail Product Lead
Ready to adapt and evolve?
Let's discuss how we can help you deliver accessible, sustainable services that provide lasting value.
Ellie Ashman
Director of Public Sector Practice
Get in touch
Who we've helped
A fresh look for the NIH Office of Intramural Training & Education (OITE)
NIH Office of Intramural Training & Education (OITE)
3 mins read
See more work posts in this category
Digital products
Research & design
Public sector
Unifying staff engagement and collaboration across four children's hospitals
Children's Health Ireland
5 mins read
See more work posts in this category
Digital products
Wagtail
Public sector
London Museum's radical digital transformation
London Museum
5 mins read
See more work posts in this category
Innovation
AI
Digital products
Wagtail
Public sector
Our thinking
Global Accessibility Awareness Day 2025: The state of web accessibility and how we can improve it
Chris Lawton
Senior Engineer
15 May 2025
/
3 mins read
Maximise the impact of your intranet: 8 things to consider
Ben Heasman
Client Partner (Public Sector)
14 Nov 2024
/
5 mins read
Making Wagtail greater for great.gov.uk
Paul Vetch
Chief Strategy Officer (Public Sector)
4 Jun 2019
/
2 mins read
Looking for a specific service?
Development
Digital accessibility