Building a learning assessment platform
Welcome to People Lab - a platform and program that aims to be the gold standard for scientifically grounded self-assessments to support personal and professional development.
Our project together: A ground-up rebuild of the People Lab custom learning platform, ready to scale and support thousands of current learners at the Wharton School and hundreds of thousands of future audiences beyond.
Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania
3 mins read
Related work categories
Digital products
Tech
Wagtail
Higher education
The client
People Lab
The People Lab
was born out of
The Wharton School
at the
University of Pennsylvania
as a collaboration between the
McNulty Leadership Program
and
Wharton People Analytics
, as a software solution for personal and professional growth.
Learners can access a suite of self-assessments and 360 evaluations to get personalised feedback, visualisations and a repository of educational resources to manage their personal and professional development.
And, the platform's anonymised aggregate data is shared with researchers to support a range of academic research projects within the school.
This content is hosted by a third party. By showing the external content you accept the
terms and conditions
of YouTube.
I accept
Don't ask me again
The opportunity
New technology, new opportunities
The legacy platform was holding the incredible People Lab team back - they wanted to:
Make use of technology that’s widely understood at the Wharton School (
Python
,
Django
, and
Wagtail
)
Streamline time-consuming and manual tasks to improve efficiency while also focusing on the research
Increase self-sufficiency for administrators to manage the People Lab system without relying on external support
Scale People Lab to support current and future audiences, potentially up to hundreds of thousands of users
Be future-ready, including integrating new survey tools and innovative technology such as video interview task assessments (VITA) and AI
And, of course, meet the University of Pennsylvania’s stringent data security and data privacy requirements.
Add to this the need to manage a successful migration of 6,000 active learners and ≈4 million assessment question responses with zero downtime - this is the sort of project and challenge the Torchbox team loves.
People Lab chose Torchbox to rebuild our platform because of their technical expertise, their track record with The Wharton School, and their approach to our partnership. At every step of the process, Torchbox brought a commitment to delivering a good product, with a great process, while keeping in mind our long term vision.
Caitlin Satterfield
Director, People Lab
Our approach
Understanding the challenge
We got started by exploring the challenges of the legacy platform, building a rich understanding of the learner journeys, and building out the People Lab team’s short- and long-term goals.
We crafted a bold platform vision statement:
We mapped out and prioritised People Lab primary users (Wharton’s MBA, Executive MBA, and Executive Education students) as well as the potential future user landscape (teaching assistants, executive coaches, student advisors, content creators, and additional learners).
We spent time with People Lab’s administrators to map their current pain points and needs. Ultimately they wanted to have greater confidence in the platform (e.g. by being able to identify issues and bugs preemptively) and greater flexibility to dynamically interact with groups of users.
Defining the new data structure
We worked hard to dig deep into People Lab’s existing data structure, database, and codebase to design a new structure that meets the team’s ambitious goals. We focused on modularity (so assessments can be re-used efficiently and new assessments can be added over time) and interoperability (People Lab integrates with multiple tools including the Qualtrics survey platform and the university’s single sign-on system).
Torchbox did a fantastic job with their technical evaluation of our legacy platform and processes. Because of the discovery and commitment to understanding People Lab as an ecosystem, we were better able to collaborate, solve problems, and deliver an amazing product. Their thoroughness and team-wide level of understanding served us from project kick off to launch.
Caitlin Satterfield
Director, People Lab
Moving to Wagtail
Wagtail proved to be a perfect solution for People Lab:
Wagtail is a well-known technology stack (Python and Django) widely used at the university - this means the team can be self-sufficient to manage the system in the long run
Being built on Django’s strong foundations, Wagtail could easily be integrated with
Qualtrics
(and other future survey tools) and third-party data visualisation services
Most importantly, Wagtail provides a user-friendly interface that makes platform and assessment data readily accessible and helps streamline time-consuming activities
The outcome
Launching People Lab!
We’re happy to say the new platform is live, paving the way for The Wharton School to continue leading the way in transforming personal development.
Here are the outcomes so far:
Learners are using the new platform, undertaking surveys, getting nearly instantaneous results, and accessing a broader array of data visualisation tools
6,000 active learners and 4 million assessment question responses successfully migrated
The new platform meets AA accessibility standards and aligns with the university’s design system
Improved efficiency of educational resource management and activity coordination
New features provide administrators with greater control and oversight
This is just the beginning - we’re looking forward to seeing the next chapter as People Lab’s reach continues to grow as a leader in achieving long-term behavioural change in Higher Education.
Want to explore Wagtail CMS or have any questions about our approach?
Get in touch
by
Tomasz Knapik
Senior Engineer
More
A fresh look for the NIH Office of Intramural Training & Education (OITE)
NIH Office of Intramural Training & Education (OITE)
3 mins read
Filter posts by category
Digital products
Research & design
Public sector
Unifying staff engagement and collaboration across four children's hospitals
Children's Health Ireland
5 mins read
Filter posts by category
Digital products
Wagtail
Public sector
London Museum's radical digital transformation
London Museum
5 mins read
Filter posts by category
Innovation
AI
Digital products
Wagtail
Public sector
See more work