Explore issues with curiosity
Insights that inform our thinking
To reveal the interconnectedness of society's biggest challenges, we must look beyond the obvious.
Our design-led, systemic approach to gathering information and data gives us the best possible picture of the situation.
Using a range of research methods, we unearth insights that inform how we can approach solving the issue in a successful and sustainable way.
Reveal what matters
Challenge deep dives
Take a systemic approach to uncover real opportunities, beyond surface-level symptoms to find transformative solutions.
Imagine tomorrow
Futures and speculative design
Envision and prepare for different futures, ensuring your strategies stay resilient and relevant.
Understand deeply
Design and user research
Blend qualitative and quantitative insights to truly understand what motivates action and drives change.
Connect complexity
Ecosystem mapping and sense-making
Map interconnections in your system to spot non-obvious opportunities and leverage points.
Enable digital growth
Technology strategy
Create sustainable solutions that adapt and evolve with your needs.
Chart the course
Theory of change
Design clear frameworks that show how today's actions create tomorrow's impact.
Ready to tackle complex challenges?
Let's explore how we can help you understand, map and solve systemic problems through innovative approaches.
Ellie Ashman
Director of Public Sector Practice
Book a chat
We were delighted with how well Torchbox responded to the challenging timetable of our project, and how well they led us through its delivery. Their flexible approach, expert knowledge and high quality reports were significant elements in making the project a success.
Neil Lawrence
Digital Transformation Manager, Oxford City Council
Exploring the potential of AI chatbots
Who we've helped
A fresh look for the NIH Office of Intramural Training & Education (OITE)
NIH Office of Intramural Training & Education (OITE)
3 mins read
See more work posts in this category
Digital products
Research & design
Public sector
London Museum's radical digital transformation
London Museum
5 mins read
See more work posts in this category
Innovation
AI
Digital products
Wagtail
Public sector
Unifying staff engagement and collaboration across four children's hospitals
Children's Health Ireland
5 mins read
See more work posts in this category
Digital products
Wagtail
Public sector
Our thinking
Reflections from the Unconference: AI, Data & Public Participation
Ben Heasman
Client Partner (Public Sector)
26 Mar 2025
/
3 mins read
Approaching a National Data Library: lessons from GOV.UK Registers
Ellie Ashman
Director of Public Sector Practice
4 Nov 2024
/
8 mins read
Navigating complex problems: From Whack-a-Mole Tactics to Systems Innovation
Andy Gordon
Head of Design and Innovation
14 Nov 2023
/
5 mins read