Lisa Ballam
Head of Marketing
Explore the potential of AI in content management
3 Jan 2024
/
1 min read
This event has now passed, but you can watch it back below:
This content is hosted by a third party. By showing the external content you accept the
terms and conditions
of YouTube.
I accept
Don't ask me again
Join us to find out more about
Wagtail CMS
' practical tools for augmenting content management with artificial intelligence, including live demos from high-profile Wagtail users, including
The Motley Fool
and
RNIB
.
Date & Time:
February 7th, 11:00 AM ET / 4:00 PM GMT
Location:
Zoom Webinar
Whether you're a content creator, a tech enthusiast, or on the lookout for a CMS with advanced AI capabilities, this event is for you!
We’ll show:
How Wagtail AI's integration with LLMs from OpenAI, Anthropic and others can accelerate and improve your content creation process.
How Wagtail AI can help you with language improvements including spelling, grammar and tone of voice, as well as sparking ideas for new content directly within the Wagtail editor interface.
A sneak peek at upcoming features of Wagtail AI, including intelligent content recommendations, natural language search, and advanced content quality assistance.
Package spotlight:
Tom Dyson, will share Wagtail AI’s journey so far and the vision for the package
Live demos:
We have live demos by organisations showcasing real-world applications and benefits of Wagtail AI, including Brady Moe, Tech Manager at the Motley Fool and Aidan Forman, Director of Technology at RNIB.
Interactive Q&A Session:
Have all of your questions answered in a live Q&A.
Want to explore Wagtail CMS or have a question about anything discussed in the webinar?
Get in touch
More
What’s new in Wagtail returns - May 2025
Lisa Ballam
Head of Marketing
4 Apr 2025
/
1 min read
The design journey behind Wagtail's page editor evolution
Ben Enright
Principal Interaction Designer
12 Mar 2025
/
4 mins read
How much power do web assets use?
James Hancock
Engineer
18 Feb 2025
/
4 mins read
See more posts